.TH "RheostatT" 1 "14 Jul 1992" "Version 3.0" "Free Widget Foundation"
.SH NAME
RheostatT \- Test Program For The Rheostat Widget
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I RheostatT
is a simple program that creates and displays two Rheostat widgets,
stacked on top of each other.
It prints the Rheostat value on stdout whenever the
.I notify
callback is invoked on the top widget.
Dragging either widget will update the other.
Most of the important resources may be
set from the command-line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-minvalue " n
Sets the minimum Rheostat value 
.I (.minimumValue)
to \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-maxvalue " n
Sets the maximum Rheostat value 
.I (.maximumValue)
to \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-minangle " n
.TP
.BI "\-maxangle " n
Set the minimum and maximum display angles
.I (.minimumAngle, .maximumAngle)
to \fIn\fP degrees.  
Measurements are clockwise, with zero degrees down.
.TP
.BI "\-intervals " n
Sets the number of tick intervals
.I (.numberIntervals)
to \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-outer " n
.TP
.BI "\-inner " n
.TP
.BI "\-width " n
Set the inner arrow length, outer arrow length, and arrow width resources
.I (.arrowWidth, .outerArrowLength, \fRand\fP .innerArrowLength)
to \fIn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-fill
Fills the dial arrow.
.I (.fillArrow: True)
.TP
.BI \+fill
Draws an outline of the dial arrow only.
.I (.fillArrow: False)
.TP
.BI \-gravity
Turns on tick gravity.
.I (.tickGravity: True)
.TP
.BI \+gravity
Turns off tick gravity.
.I (.tickGravity: False)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.I RheostatT -outer 40 -inner 80 -width 20 +fill
Uses a diamond shaped arrow instead of the usual Enterprise logo shaped
arrow.
.TP 
.I RheostatT -minangle 0 -maxangle 360 -minvalue 0 -maxvalue 360 -intervals 8
Configures the Rheostat as an angle valuator, with ticks every 45 degrees.
.SH AUTHOR
.sp
.nf
Joe English
\fIjoe@trystero.art.com\fP
.fi
