'\" t
.TH "PixEditT" "1" "19 May 1992" "Version 3.0" "Free Widget Foundation"
.SH NAME
PixEditT \- A Simple Bitmap Editor Program
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I PixEditT
is a simple bitmap editor program which is used to test the
.I PixelEditor
widget.  It allows the loading and saving of bitmap & XPM3 pixmap
files in the same format used as the Athena bitmap program.  Useful
features include different magnifications, brush shapes and
cut/copy/paste.  This program is not intended to be a full-featured
pixel editing application.  It exists to test the PixelEditor widget
that it is constructed from.

Recently, optional scrollbars have been added to the program.  These can
be enabled by using the flag -scrollbars on the command line.  These are
optional because they can cause the program to slow down enormously in
certain situations for reasons currently unknown.  It may involve the loading
of shared libraries, or may be a bug in the geometry management, or other
reasons.  Until the reason is discovered, the use of the viewport scrollbars
are optional.

The Xpm3 library and include file comes with the X11R5 release.  You can
obtain the Xpm code from export.lcs.mit.edu from the ftp directory
~ftp/contrib.  The FWF.tmpl file in the project root directory contains
the line to include the Xpm library.  If you want to disable the Xpm
support (e.g. because you do not have the Xpm package), insert the line:

#define NO_XPM

at the top of the PixEditT.h file.

.SH RESTRICTIONS
.LP
Many potential features have been left out of this program.

Doesn't always redraw when resources change.
.SH AUTHOR
.sp
.nf
Brian Totty, \fItotty@cs.uiuc.edu\fR
Department of Computer Science,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
1304 W. Springfield Avenue
Urbana, IL 61801
.fi
