.TH "FChooserT" "1" "28 Jan 1993" "Version 1.0" "Free Widget Foundation"
.SH NAME
FChooserT \- Test Program For The FileChooser Widget
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I FChooserT
is a simple program that creates and tests a FileChooser widget in a
Form with some other buttons to indicate typical usage.  The source
may be useful is seeing how the FileChooser widget can be used.
.PP
The test program allows you to traverse the directory hierarchy by
selecting files or directories from the FileChooser by clicking on
them with the mouse. A message is printed each time the selection
changes. The current directory is shown in the FileChooser on the
MenuButton above the list of files. Clicking on it pops up a menu from
which an ancestor directory can be selected if you want to go up the
tree. This functionality is all part of the FileChooser itself.
.PP
The test program provides some other things to allow you to experiemnt
with the functionality and to provide usage examples. The Text item
below the FileChooser labelled "File" is updated whenever you select a
file, and it can be edited, for example to enter new filenames. The
"Ok" button exits the program, printing the current directory (from
the FileChooser) and current file (from the Text item, in case you
edited it). Hitting Return in the Text item is like clicking on "Ok".
The "Cancel" button exits without printing anything. The "Sort Mode"
button allows you change the sorting of files in the FileChooser by
selecting a different sort mode from the menu. You can change the
FileChooser's filter pattern (a shell-like "globbing" pattern) by
typing in the Text item labelled "Filter" and hitting Return.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson, ferguson@cs.rochester.edu.
