'\" t
.TH "" 3 "" "Version 3.0" "Free Widget Foundation"
.SH NAME
XfwfScrollbar
.SH DESCRIPTION
The scrollbar widget helps the user to view data that is too large
to be displayed all at once.  They are often used through a
ScrolledWindow (see there), where they are put next to and/or below
the widget that contains the data. The scrollbar controls which part
is visible. By manipulating the scrollbar the user can move (`scroll')
the data within the other widget.

A scrollbar consists of two arrows placed at each end of a rectangle,
either at the top and bottom or at the left and right. The former is
called a vertical scrollbar, the latter a horizontal one.  A smaller
rectangle, called the thumb or slider, is placed within the larger
one. It can move up and down (vertical scrollbar) or left/right
(horizontal scrollbar). Clicking an arrow moves the data in that
direction. Pressing the mouse button on an arrow and holding it, moves
the data by small increments as long as the mouse button is down.
Dragging the slider moves the data proportionally with the slider,
either along with the movement of the mouse, or all at once when the
mouse button is released. Pressing the mouse button onthe rectangle
outside the slider moves the data in larger increments.

The ratio of the slider size to the scroll region size typically
corresponds to the relationship between the size of the visible data
and the total size of the data.  For example, if 10 percent of the
data is visible, the slider typically occupies 10 percent of the
scroll region.  This provides the user with a visual clue to the size
of the invisible data.

The scrollbar widget can be configured as either horizontal or
vertical. It is made up of two XfwfArrow widgets and an XfwfSlider2
widget. Therefore, many of the scrollbar's resources are actually
resources for these, nameless, widgets. The scrollbar has the
same callback list as the slider.

.SS "Public variables"

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
XfwfScrollbar
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNvertical	XtCVertical	Boolean 	True 
XtNscrollCallback	XtCScrollCallback	Callback	NULL 
XtNscrollResponse	XtCScrollResponse	XtCallbackProc 	scroll_response 
XtNinitialDelay	XtCInitialDelay	Cardinal 	500 
XtNrepeatDelay	XtCRepeatDelay	Cardinal 	50 
XtNincrement	XtCIncrement	float 	"0.05"
XtNscrollbarForeground	XtCScrollbarForeground	Color 	copy_background 
XtNshadow	XtCShadow	Dimension 	2 
XtNminsize	XtCMinsize	Dimension 	20 

.TE
.ps +2

.TP
.I "XtNvertical"
The orientation of the scrollbar is set with the \fIvertical\fP
resource. \fITrue\fP means vertical, \fIFalse\fP horizontal. This resource may
only be set during initialization. Any changes via \fIXtVaSetValues\fP
result in a warning and are then ignored.

	

.TP
.I "XtNscrollCallback"
The user can interact with the scrollbar in many ways, but there is
only a single callback list: \fIscrollCallback\fP. The callback uses the
\fIcall_data\fP parameter to pass a pointer to an \fIXfwfScrollInfo\fP
structure: \fIstruct {XfwfSReason reason; XfwfSFlags flags; float vpos,
vsize, hpos, hsize;}\fP The \fIflags\fP field is a bitwise combination of
\fIXFWF_VPOS\fP, \fIXFWF_HPOS\fP, \fIXFWF_VSIZE\fP and \fIXFWF_HSIZE\fP.  The
structure contains a field \fIreason\fP, which can have the following
values (there exist other values, but they are not used by the
scrollbar):

\item{-} \fIXfwfSUp\fP: if the user clicked (or holds) the up arrow.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSLeft\fP: ditto left arrow.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSDown\fP: ditto down arrow.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSRight\fP: ditto right arrow.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSPageUp\fP: ditto area above thumb.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSPageDown\fP: ditto area below thumb.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSPageLeft\fP: ditto area left of thumb.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSPageRight\fP: ditto area right of thumb.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSDrag\fP: if the user drags the thumb.
\item{-} \fIXfwfSMove\fP: if the user stops dragging the thumb.

The other four fields contain the new position of the thumb, as
numbers between 0.0 and 1.0 inclusive.  In the case of drag and drop
actions, the position and size reflect the thumb's {\em actual}
position at the end of the dragging.  In the other cases, the position
is the {\em suggested} new position. In these latter cases, the
callback routine should compute the new position and use a call to the
function in the \fIScrollResponse\fP resource (or, more conveniently, to
\fIXfwfSetScrollbar\fP) to update the scrollbar.

	

.TP
.I "XtNscrollResponse"
The standard way to update the scrollbar is with a call to the
function that is knwon as the \fIscrollResponse\fP function. To get a
pointer to that function, you should use \fIXtGetValues\fP or
\fIXtVaGetValues\fP on the \fIXtNscrollResponse\fP resource. But from an
application it might be easier to use the \fIXfwfSetScrollbar\fP
convenience function instead.

The \fIscrollResponse\fP routine has the same format as a callback
procedure. The first argument is a widget, this argument is ignored.
The second argument is \fIXtPointer client_data\fP, it must point to the
scrollbar that is to be updated. The third argument is \fIXtPointer
call_data\fP, it must be a pointer to an \fIXfwfScrollInfo\fP structure (see
above).

	

.TP
.I "XtNinitialDelay"
When the user presses and then holds the mouse button on an arrow or
on an area outside the thumb, the scrollbar waits some milliseconds
before it starts repeating the callbacks.

	

.TP
.I "XtNrepeatDelay"
Between repeated calls to the callback routines, the scrollbar will
wait a few milliseconds.

	

.TP
.I "XtNincrement"
Some widgets may be simple enough that they can scroll a fixed
amount whenever the user clicks on one of the arrow buttons. If that
is the case, they can let the scrollbar compute the new position. It
will be passed in the \fIXfwfScrollInfo\fP structure as the suggested new
position. Any receiver is free to ignore the suggestion, however. The
default is to add or subtract 0.05.

	

.TP
.I "XtNscrollbarForeground"
The color of the arrow and the thumb also determines the color of
the 3D shadow, at least if \fIshadowScheme\fP is set to \fIXfwfAuto\fP, as it
is by default. The default value is determined dynamically, it is
copied from the \fIbackground\fP resource.

	

.TP
.I "XtNshadow"
The width of the arrow's and thumb's shadow is by default 2 pixels.

	

.TP
.I "XtNminsize"
The minimum size of the thumb is by default 20 pixels. It can be set
with the \fIminsize\fP resource.

	

.TP
.I "XtNframeWidth"
The slider and the two arrows frame will be forced to 0 pixels. The
only frame is that of the whole scrollbar.  The default frame width is
changed from 0 to 2.

	

.TP
.I "XtNframeType"
The default frame type is now \fIXfwfSunken\fP.

	

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
XfwfBoard
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNabs_x	XtCAbs_x	Position 	0 
XtNrel_x	XtCRel_x	Float 	"0.0"
XtNabs_y	XtCAbs_y	Position 	0 
XtNrel_y	XtCRel_y	Float 	"0.0"
XtNabs_width	XtCAbs_width	Position 	0 
XtNrel_width	XtCRel_width	Float 	"1.0"
XtNabs_height	XtCAbs_height	Position 	0 
XtNrel_height	XtCRel_height	Float 	"1.0"
XtNhunit	XtCHunit	Float 	"1.0"
XtNvunit	XtCVunit	Float 	"1.0"
XtNlocation	XtCLocation	String 	NULL 

.TE
.ps +2

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
XfwfFrame
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNcursor	XtCCursor	Cursor 	None 
XtNframeType	XtCFrameType	FrameType 	XfwfRaised 
XtNframeWidth	XtCFrameWidth	Dimension 	0 
XtNouterOffset	XtCOuterOffset	Dimension 	0 
XtNinnerOffset	XtCInnerOffset	Dimension 	0 
XtNshadowScheme	XtCShadowScheme	ShadowScheme 	XfwfAuto 
XtNtopShadowColor	XtCTopShadowColor	Color 	compute_topcolor 
XtNbottomShadowColor	XtCBottomShadowColor	Color 	compute_bottomcolor 
XtNtopShadowStipple	XtCTopShadowStipple	Bitmap 	NULL 
XtNbottomShadowStipple	XtCBottomShadowStipple	Bitmap 	NULL 

.TE
.ps +2

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
XfwfCommon
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNuseXCC	XtCUseXCC	Boolean 	TRUE 
XtNusePrivateColormap	XtCUsePrivateColormap	Boolean 	FALSE 
XtNuseStandardColormaps	XtCUseStandardColormaps	Boolean 	TRUE 
XtNstandardColormap	XtCStandardColormap	Atom 	0 
XtNxcc	XtCXCc	XCC 	create_xcc 
XtNtraversalOn	XtCTraversalOn	Boolean 	True 
XtNhighlightThickness	XtCHighlightThickness	Dimension 	2 
XtNhighlightColor	XtCHighlightColor	Color 	XtDefaultForeground 
XtNbackground	XtCBackground	Color 	XtDefaultBackground 
XtNhighlightPixmap	XtCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap 	None 
XtNnextTop	XtCNextTop	Callback	NULL 
XtNuserData	XtCUserData	Pointer	NULL 

.TE
.ps +2

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
Composite
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNchildren	XtCChildren	WidgetList 	NULL 
insertPosition	XtCInsertPosition	XTOrderProc 	NULL 
numChildren	XtCNumChildren	Cardinal 	0 

.TE
.ps +2

.ps -2
.TS
center box;
cBsss
lB|lB|lB|lB
l|l|l|l.
Core
Name	Class	Type	Default
XtNx	XtCX	Position 	0 
XtNy	XtCY	Position 	0 
XtNwidth	XtCWidth	Dimension 	0 
XtNheight	XtCHeight	Dimension 	0 
borderWidth	XtCBorderWidth	Dimension 	0 
XtNcolormap	XtCColormap	Colormap 	NULL 
XtNdepth	XtCDepth	Int 	0 
destroyCallback	XtCDestroyCallback	XTCallbackList 	NULL 
XtNsensitive	XtCSensitive	Boolean 	True 
XtNtm	XtCTm	XTTMRec 	NULL 
ancestorSensitive	XtCAncestorSensitive	Boolean 	False 
accelerators	XtCAccelerators	XTTranslations 	NULL 
borderColor	XtCBorderColor	Pixel 	0 
borderPixmap	XtCBorderPixmap	Pixmap 	NULL 
background	XtCBackground	Pixel 	0 
backgroundPixmap	XtCBackgroundPixmap	Pixmap 	NULL 
mappedWhenManaged	XtCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean 	True 
XtNscreen	XtCScreen	Screen *	NULL 

.TE
.ps +2

.SS "Exports"

The \fIXfwfSetScrollbar\fP convenience function can be used to set the
position and size of a scrollbar. The two arguments must be between
0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive).

.nf
XfwfSetScrollbar( $, double  pos, double  size)
.fi

.SS "Actions"

.TP
.I "Scroll

The following action is not used by default, but it is defined here,
because someone might want to bind it to keys. For example, the
subclasses \fIXfwfVScrollbar\fP and \fIXfwfHScrollbar\fP do that.

